UNTDED 2005

2.3.4 External expertise

The MA is authorized to seek external expert advice where necessary.

2.3.5 Maintenance Agency Secretariat (MAS)

The United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE), through the Trade Division
and the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) jointly provide the secretariat for
the MA.

The responsibilities of the MAS are:
- To receive proposals for changes and additions to, or deletions of, data elements in TDED;

- To make appropriate suggestions or proposals and to circulate them to MA members for
comments and/or decision within a specified period of time;

- To maintain a master of the TDED.

2.4 Rules of procedure

2.4.1 Proposals for changes, additions or deletions

Proposals for changes and additions to, or deletions of, data elements in the TDED can be
received from:

- any ISO member body;

- any government and international organization member of UN/CEFACT;

- any other international organization representing users of the directory;

and shall be submitted to the MAS, using the TDED Change request form. This form can be
obtained from the ISO/TC154 web: http://www.iso.org/tc154 .

Any proposals for changes, additions or deletions which have a bearing on an existing data
element used in UN/EDIFACT should be submitted by the MA to the UN/EDIFACT
maintenance procedures.

Any proposals for changes, additions or deletions of a data element used in UN/EDIFACT
which have a bearing on an existing non-UN/EDIFACT data element in TDED should be
submitted to the MA.

2.4.2 Changes to TDED

As a general principle, to ensure continuity and stability in the TDED, changes should be kept
to a minimum.

2.4.2.1. Change of the name or description of an existing data element

If the concept of the data element is not affected, a change of the name or description of an
existing data element will not result in a change of the already assigned numeric identifier

(tag).

The previous name will be cross-referenced.

ISO 7372:2005(E) Page 8
