UNTDED 2005

If it is proposed to change the name or description of a data element in such a way that,
without substantially changing the concept, its application area is extended or further
clarified, the numeric identifier may be retained provided that there are no objections from
users who might be adversely affected by the change.

2.4.2.2 Change in the concept of a data element

A change in a concept of a data element will result in the assignment of a new numeric
identifier.

The previous concept and identifier will be retained for a transitional period of time, to be
determined in each case after consultation with users.

2.4.2.3 Addition of data elements

Any new data element agreed upon by the MA for inclusion in the TDED will be assigned a
numeric identifier within the group to which the data element belongs. This applies also to
provisional data elements.

2.4.2.4 Deletion of data elements

Data elements marked for deletion (with only tag, name and date of deletion) shall stay
forever in the Directory, with provision of the migration path “use instead: ...”. Hence the
numeric identifier of a data element marked for deletion shall not be re-used for a new data
element.

2.4.3. Technical Assessment Checklist (TAC)

The MA, recognizing that:

- its Data Maintenance Request (DMR) procedures shall be predictable, fully documented
and transparent,

- the best available tool is the Core Component Technical Assessment Checklist (cc TAC,
see ISO/TS15000-5 ebXML CCTS), and that in addition,

- the ISO 7372/MA DMR procedures shall be, where relevant, fully consistent with the
UN/CEFACT DMR procedures,

the MA resolved to have the possibility of issuing and applying a Technical Assessment
Checklist (TAC) for the production of a later edition of TDED.

2.5 Consultation of members of the MA

Proposals received by the MAS shall be circulated to MA members along with suggestions by
the secretariat as appropriate, for response within a specified period of time, normally not less
than two months. The need for MA members to institute internal consultations before
committing themselves will be taken into account by the MAS in determining the time for
response.

Before circulating a proposal, the MAS shall endeavour to assess the implications of this
proposal on data element applications, which are known to it. For this purpose, the MA

Page 9 ISO 7372:2005(E)
