UNTDED 2005

through the MAS may consult directly users of the TDED, national facilitation bodies and
other interested parties, as required.

If an urgent need arises for the introduction of a new data element, or for change of an
existing one, the MAS is authorized to accept a proposal on a provisional basis, subject to
subsequent considerations as set out above, and on conditions that the proposing party accepts
the possibility of rejection of, or amendment to, the proposal in the course of normal
procedure.

2.6 Voting procedures

Agreement on proposals is obtained either by correspondence or at a meeting of the MA,
provided that the matter has been included in the draft agenda of the meeting.

In accordance with ISO rules, as far as the ISO members of the MA are concerned, decisions
shall be reached by a vote. Each ISO member of the MA has one vote. An associate member
has the same status as an ordinary member but does not participate in voting.

In cases of urgency, the views of the members of the MA may be obtained by telephone; these
should be confirmed in writing, by e-mail or similar means.

Failure to reply within the reply period specified is considered as an abstention.
Decisions of the MA should be supported by a substantial majority of its members.

If a substantial majority is not achieved, the voting will be repeated or considered at a
following meeting of the MA. The letter ballot shall be accompanied by all comments
received from the first vote and a MAS recommendation. Time for response: one month. In
determining the outcome of the second vote, the majority is calculated on the basis of
expressed affirmative and negative votes.

If voting is repeated on individual proposals this procedure shall not delay publication of
those proposals, which have gained the necessary support. In cases where it has not been
possible to accept a proposal, the submitter of the proposal shall be informed of the reasons.

2.7 Implementation of approved amendments

An amendment (i.e. change, addition or deletion) becomes effective when approved by the
MA and will be published as often as required and possible, but not more often than annually.

The availability of amendments to ISO 7372 shall be announced to the ISO member bodies
and to UNECE users by the MAS.

Practical arrangements for the preparation, reproduction and dissemination of TDED and
amendment sheets to TDED shall be the responsibility of the secretariat of UNECE.

ISO 7372:2005(E) Page 10
